RHIDP-3878 Authenticating with RHSSO (#480)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authentication/proc-provisioning-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog.adoc

  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        groupQuerySize: 100
----

`schedule.frequency`::
To specify custom schedule frequency.
Supports cron, ISO duration, and "human duration" as used in code.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.frequency` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        schedule:
          frequency: { hours: 1 }
----

`schedule.timeout`::
To specify custom timeout.
Supports ISO duration and "human duration" as used in code.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.timeout` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        schedule:
          timeout: { minutes: 50 }
----

`schedule.initialDelay`::
To specify custom initial delay.
Supports ISO duration and "human duration" as used in code.
+
.`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.initialDelay` field
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        schedule:
          initialDelay: { seconds: 15}
----
--

.Verification

. Check the console logs to verify the synchronization has been completed.
+
.Successful synchronization example:
[source,json]
----

> FIXME: add console log example

Author: @albarbaro Can you provide a console log example?

Author: ```suggestion
{"class":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider","level":"info","message":"Read 3 Keycloak users and 2 Keycloak groups in 1.5 seconds. Committing...","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"bf0467ff-8ac4-4702-911c-380270e44dea","timestamp":"2024-09-25 13:58:04"}
{"class":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider","level":"info","message":"Committed 3 Keycloak users and 2 Keycloak groups in 0.0 seconds.","plugin":"catalog","service":"backstage","taskId":"KeycloakOrgEntityProvider:default:refresh","taskInstanceId":"bf0467ff-8ac4-4702-911c-380270e44dea","timestamp":"2024-09-25 13:58:04"}
```

[id="provisioning-users-from-rhsso-to-the-software-catalog"]

> = Provisioning users from Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO) to the software catalog

Reviewer: Consider adding an introduction to this section.

.Prerequisites
* You xref:enabling-authentication-with-rhsso[enabled authentication with RHSSO].

.Procedure

> * To enable RHSSO member discovery, edit your custom {product-short} config map, such as app-config-rhdh, and add following lines to the app-config-rhdh.yaml content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To enable RHSSO member discovery, edit your custom {product-short} ConfigMap, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add the following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
```

+
--
[id=keycloakOrgProviderId]

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with mandatory `keycloakOrg` fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with mandatory `keycloakOrg` fields
```

[source,yaml]
----

> dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false <1>
```

catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:

>         baseUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        baseUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL} <2>
```

>         clientId: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        clientId: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID} <3>
```

>         clientSecret: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET} <4>
```

----

> `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: false`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>  Allow authentication only for users present in the {product-short} software catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 <1> Allow authentication only for users in the {product-short} software catalog.
```

> `baseUrl`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Your RHSSO server URL, defined when xref:enabling-authentication-with-rhsso[enabling authentication with RHSSO].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Your RHSSO server URL, defined when xref:enabling-authentication-with-rhsso[enabling authentication with RHSSO].
```

> `clientId`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Your {product-short} application client ID in RHSSO, defined when xref:enabling-authentication-with-rhsso[enabling authentication with RHSSO].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Your {product-short} application client ID in RHSSO, defined when xref:enabling-authentication-with-rhsso[enabling authentication with RHSSO].
```

> `clientSecret`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Your {product-short} application client secret in RHSSO, defined when xref:enabling-authentication-with-rhsso[enabling authentication with RHSSO].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Your {product-short} application client secret in RHSSO, defined when xref:enabling-authentication-with-rhsso[enabling authentication with RHSSO].
```

> Optional: Consider adding following optional  fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optional: Consider adding the following optional fields:
```

`realm`::
Realm to synchronize.
Default value: `master`.
+

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `realm` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `realm` field
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        realm: master
----

`loginRealm`::
Realm used to authenticate.
Default value: `master`.
+

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `loginRealm` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `loginRealm` field
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        loginRealm: master
----

`userQuerySize`::
User number to query simultaneously.
Default value: `100`.
+

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `userQuerySize` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `userQuerySize` field
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        userQuerySize: 100
----

`groupQuerySize`::
Group number to query simultaneously.
Default value: `100`.
+

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `groupQuerySize` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `groupQuerySize` field
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        groupQuerySize: 100
----

`schedule.frequency`::
To specify custom schedule frequency.
Supports cron, ISO duration, and "human duration" as used in code.
+

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.frequency` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.frequency` field
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        schedule:
          frequency: { hours: 1 }
----

`schedule.timeout`::
To specify custom timeout.
Supports ISO duration and "human duration" as used in code.
+

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.timeout` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.timeout` field
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        schedule:
          timeout: { minutes: 50 }
----

`schedule.initialDelay`::
To specify custom initial delay.
Supports ISO duration and "human duration" as used in code.
+

> .`app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.initialDelay` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `app-config.yaml` fragment with optional `schedule.initialDelay` field
```

[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    keycloakOrg:
      default:
        schedule:
          initialDelay: { seconds: 15}
----
--

.Verification

> . Check the console logs to verify the synchronization has been completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the console logs to verify that the synchronization is completed.
```
